 AWS:-
 What is the difference between stopping and terminating an EC2 instance?

 How can you add an existing instance to a new Auto Scaling group?

 How do you configure CloudWatch to recover an EC2 instance?

 How do you configure CloudWatch to recover an EC2 instance?

 How does Amazon Route 53 provide high availability and low latency?

 What happens in CloudFormation when one of the resources in a stack cannot be
created successfully?

 What are the steps involved in a CloudFormation Solution?

 How does AWS config work with AWS CloudTrail?

 Can AWS Config aggregate data across different AWS accounts?

 How are reserved instances different from on-demand DB instances?

 Which type of scaling would you recommend for RDS and why?

 What is a maintenance window in Amazon RDS? Will your DB instance be available
during maintenance events?

 What are the different types of load balancers in AWS?

 What are the different uses of the various load balancers in AWS Elastic Load Balancing?

 How can you use AWS WAF in monitoring your AWS applications?

 What are the different AWS IAM categories that you can control?

 What is the difference between an IAM role and an IAM user?

 What are the managed policies in AWS IAM?

 Can you give an example of an IAM policy and a policy summary?

 How does AWS IAM help your business?

 What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?

 What is auto-scaling?

 What is geo-targeting in CloudFront?

 How do you upgrade or downgrade a system with near zero downtime?

 What are the tools and techniques that you can use in AWS to identify if you are paying
more than you should be, and how to correct it?

 What services can be used to create a centralized logging solution?

 What are the native AWS Security logging capabilities? What is a DDoS attack and what services can minimize them?

 You are trying to provide a service in a particular region but you are not seeing the
service in that region. Why is this happening and how do you fix it?

 Name some of the AWS services that are not region specific

 What are the differences between NAT Gateways and NAT Instances?

 What are the factors to consider while migrating to Amazon Web Services?

 What is RTO and RPO in AWS?

 If you would like to transfer huge amounts of data, which is the best option among
Snowball, Snowball Edge, and Snowmobile?

 What are some key differences between AWS S3 and EBS?

 How do you allow a user to gain access to a certain S3 bucket?

 How can you monitor S3 cross region replication to ensure consistency without actually
checking the bucket?

 VPC is not resolving the server through DNS. What might be the issue and how can you
fix it?

 How do you connect multiple sites to a VPC?

 Name and explain some security products and features available in VPC?

 How do you monitor Amazon VPC?

 How can you automate EC2 backup using EBS?

 What is the difference between EBS and Instance Store?

 Can you take a backup of EFS like EBS, and if yes, how?

 What are Key-Pairs in AWS?

 What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?

 What is a Power User Access in AWS?

 What is the use of lifecycle hooks is Auto scaling?

 What is NAT Instance/NAT Gateway?

 Why is SG?

 If my RDS is running out of space how will you resolve that without launching other
RDS?

 What is Lambda and how it works?

 How will you take backups using Lambda?

 Component of VPC

 Difference between EC2 and ECS

 Types of storage in AWS?

 What is DNS? Uses?

 Why you won’t go with EC2 for installing Database? Why RDS?

 What is Load Balancer What is VPC Peering

 What is CloudFront

 What is the use of the IAM role?

 How many subnets assign to the routing table?

 What is the static IP?

 How will get access to private subnets?

 Can you increase the size of root volume without shutdown the instance?

 What is ELB? How many types are there?

 What is auto scaling?

 What is hosted zone and uses of record set?

 Types in R53?

 How will take up backup for volumes?

 How to encrypt the root volume?

 How will access AS account?

 What is the subnet group in DB?

 How do you connect to windows instances?


 Port numbers of RDP, SSH, and HTTPS?

 What is the difference between EBS, S3, and EFS?

 What type of data do you store in s3 and EBS?

 What is s3 Replication?

 Why use events in cloud watch in AWS?

 What is the difference between VPC level security and system level security?

 If you lost the pem file then how will you connect to EC2?

 You want to store temporary data on an EC2 instance. Which storage option is ideal for
this purpose?

 How do you configures3 bucket?

 What are EC2 and VPC how we create & write a script?

 Difference between Vagrant and AWS?

 What is the use of EC2 AMI?

 What is the use case of S3 Bucket?

 My webservers are running in private subnet I want to route my ELB Traffic to web
servers in private subnets?

 What is NAT Instance/NAT Gateway?

 What is NACL and Security Group

 If my RDS is running out of space how will you resolve that without launching other
RDS?

 What is Lambda and how it works? How will you take backups using Lambda?

 Types of storage in AWS?

 Difference between S3 & Glacier?

 Components of VPC?

 Difference between EC2 and ECS?

 What is DNS? Uses?

 Why you won’t go with EC2 for installing Database? Why RDS?

 What is AWS?

 What is a cloud?

 What is EC2?

 What is VPC?

 What is AZ?

 What is ELB?

 What is VPC peering?

 What is the aim of VPC peering?

 Why use VPC peering, real-time example?

 What is Security Group?

 What is cloud front/CDN?

 What is a lambda, what is the use of it?

 What have you developed using Lambda?

 What is automation have you done for with lambda?

 What is cloud watch?

 What is cloud formation?

 S3 lifecycle?

 What is the use of the IAM role?

 How many subnets assign to the routing table?

 What is the static IP?

 How will get access to private subnets?

 Can you increase the size of root volume without shutdown the instance?

 What is ELB? How many types are there?

 What is auto scaling?

 What is hosted zone and uses of record set?

 How will take up backup for volumes?

 How to encrypt the root volume?

 How will access AS account?

 How do you connect to windows instances?

 Port numbers of RDP, SSH, and HTTPS?

 What is the difference between EBS, S3, and EFS?

 What type of data do you store in s3 and EBS?

 Replication s3?

 Why use events in cloud watch in AWS?

 What is the difference between VPC level security and system level security?

 If you lost the pem file then how will you connect to EC2?

 What IAM Role and policy?

 How will run lambda and where you will configure lambda?


 How lambda run on secluding and event-based?

 What is cloud watch? Have you configured any custom metrics?

 What are the metrics available on your dashboard?

 How do you configure CPU Utilization on your dashboard?

 How can I attach SSL for the s3 bucket?

 S3 bucket having a policy for only read-only but you're having full access for you? Can
you?

 What is CDN?

 How will attach policy for IAM users by group or individual?


 Have you used any tool for creating customized AMIS?

 What is connection draining?

 How your ELB shares traffic?

 What is auto-scaling?

 Types of Load Balancers and example?

 What is the run time of Lambda?

 What is the memory size of lambda?

 How can I run lambda for more time?

 By using lambda what are automation you’re performed in your project?

 Why you’re not using boto3 for infrastructure provisioning?

 What are the modules you used in Lambda?

 Have created SNS topic?

 In your VPC all IPS are finished you have a requirement for resources how to provision
it?

 What is access key and secret key?

 What is CORS in s3?

 What type of ELB you used in the project?

 Difference between EBS and NFS? Different types of storage in S3?



 Different types of storage in S3?

 Can you explain how you have used Amazon CloudFront to improve content delivery
and performance, including any techniques you have used to set up caching, SSL/TLS, or
geo-restriction?

 How have you used AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to manage access
control and permissions for AWS services and resources, including any techniques you
have used to set up policies or integrate with other authentication and authorization
systems?

 Can you explain what AWS Cloud is and how it is used in software development and
deployment?

 How have you used AWS Cloud to deploy and manage infrastructure, including any
techniques you have used to set up virtual servers, databases, and storage?

 Can you describe your experience using AWS Cloud to manage and scale applications,
including any techniques you have used to set up load balancing, auto-scaling, and fault
tolerance?

 How have you used AWS Cloud to manage security and compliance, including any
techniques you have used to set up network security, access control, and compliance
audits?

 Can you explain how you have used AWS Cloud to integrate with other tools and
services in the development pipeline, such as continuous integration and deployment
platforms or artifact repositories?

 How have you used AWS Cloud to monitor and troubleshoot applications and
infrastructure, including any techniques you have used to set up logging, monitoring,
and alerting?

 Can you describe your experience using AWS Cloud to manage data and analytics,
including any techniques you have used to set up data pipelines, data warehousing, and
machine learning?

 How have you used AWS Cloud to manage hybrid or multi-cloud environments,
including any techniques you have used to set up hybrid architectures, manage data
across different clouds, or integrate with on premise infrastructure?

 Can you explain how you have used AWS Cloud to manage cost optimization and
billing, including any techniques you have used to set up cost monitoring, budgeting,
and optimization?

 How have you used AWS Cloud to manage compliance and regulatory requirements,
including any techniques you have used to set up compliance audits, implement data
protection policies, or manage GDPR requirements?

 You have a web application that needs to scale dynamically to handle spikes in traffic.
How would you use AWS Cloud to achieve this?You are tasked with setting up an architecture for a new application that must be highly
available and fault-tolerant. How would you go about designing this architecture in AWS
Cloud?

 Your company has a large amount of data that needs to be stored and analyzed. How
would you use AWS Cloud to set up a data warehouse and analysis system?

 You are tasked with migrating an existing application to AWS Cloud. What steps would
you take to ensure a successful migration?

 Your application requires a high level of security and compliance. How would you use
AWS Cloud to ensure the security and compliance requirements are met?

 You are working with a team that needs to collaborate and share code in a secure and
efficient manner. How would you use AWS Cloud to set up a secure code repository and
collaboration environment?

 You need to implement a disaster recovery plan for your application. How would you
use AWS Cloud to set up a disaster recovery solution that meets your needs?

 Your application has specific performance requirements. How would you use AWS Cloud
to set up a performance monitoring and optimization solution?

 You need to set up a system to handle real-time streaming data. How would you use
AWS Cloud to set up a real-time data processing and analysis system?

 You have a globally distributed user base that requires low-latency access to your
application. How would you use AWS Cloud to set up a content delivery network (CDN)
to improve performance?

 Can you describe your experience with AWS CloudFormation and how you have used it
to manage infrastructure as code?

 How have you used AWS Lambda to automate tasks and build serverless applications,
including any techniques you have used to set up event-driven architecture or manage
deployment and scaling?

 Can you discuss your experience using Amazon S3 to store and manage object data,
including any techniques you have used to set up versioning, access control, or lifecycle
policies?

 How have you used Amazon EC2 to manage virtual machines and scale applications,
including any techniques you have used to manage instance types, security groups, or
auto scaling?

 Can you explain how you have used Amazon RDS to manage relational databases,
including any techniques you have used to manage backups, scaling, or replication?

 How have you used Amazon Elastic Load Balancing to distribute traffic across instances
and improve application availability, including any techniques you have used to set up
health checks or manage cross-zone load balancing?

 Can you describe your experience using Amazon VPC to isolate and secure your cloud
resources, including any techniques you have used to set up subnets, security groups, or
VPN connections?How have you used Amazon Route 53 to manage DNS and routing for your cloud
applications, including any techniques you have used to set up traffic policies or
integrate with other AWS services?

 My webservers are running in private subnet I want to route my ELB Traffic to web
servers in private subnets?

 What is NAT Instance/NAT Gateway?

 If my RDS is running out of space how will you resolve that without launching other
RDS?

 Difference between Vagrant and AWS?

 What is use of AMI?

 What is the purpose and use of s3 bucket?

 Explain me how do you take backups for RDS?

 Do you any knowledge on setting up Big Data cluster?

 How does auto scaling work?

 What type of ELB you used in the project?

 Are you only using cloud watch for monitoring?

 What is Lambda?

 How does it work?

 I want to run my job today at 5 pm how do you configure?

 Difference between Classic ELB and Application ELB?

 What is auto scaling?

 What is the launch configuration in auto scaling?

 Different types of storage in S3?

 Difference between EBS and NFS?

 What are Glacier and Snowball?

 What has required one resource in was to communicate with other resources?

 Have you worked in any implementation in AWS?

 Can you provide the step by steps instructions, if you want to implementation any
services for example lambda? What are the procedures?

 What are the things you have been taken care in order to implementation then services
in AWS?

 How do you deploy lambda and how do you configure lambda functions?

 How do you monitor the lambda functions?

 Have you configured Route53? Can you explain step by step procedures?

 What needs to be done in order to configure the Route53 and what are the things need
to be taken care during implementation? say, some development team wants to implement their services, so what is your
take a so how do you get started doing that recommend?

 For example, someone want to use AWS micros services they want to implement in aws
services?

 What is your approaches and what are the things passes need to be taken care as part
of implement this micro services in AWS?

 What are the cloud implementation tool you use?

 Can you explain how you will use Terraform for implementation?

 For security like IAM role or policy we can manage it terraform or CDK itself

 For Cost Optimization? What kind of cost optimization you have done?

 In production we are being monitored by CloudWatch for DynamoDB Instance?

 We are Kinley looking into the cost billing we get from the AWS, Suddenly business
came to reach us they said like we are get billing hit to double. Last week we are paying
like 15k but suddenly now its double. its 100k bills from AWS

 Can you please find out root cause with DynamoDB what’s wrong with DynamoDB
utilization?

 In this case what is internal approaches to troubleshoot for this case?

 During CDN CloudFront implementation what parameters need to take care?

 What will be the best approached to reduce the traffic to the origin and how do we start
with it.

 Have you worked on any log management tools like Kibana, Splunk or Google Analytics
for metrics?

 How to choose right instance size? What type of questions you will ask to the Business
to choose right instance size?

 What is the use cases for EC2

 Let’s say I have received one request to create ec2 and install web server like nginx, so
what information you needed before provision this setup.

 I want to install nginx or apache web server when my ec2 launch. So how do I configure
it?

 Let’s say you have received request to migrate ec2 instance to another aws account.
How you can migrate. What is the best approach to migrate ec2 instance?

 What are the checks for ec2 instance

 I want to launch ec2 instance with fixed private ip address?

 What is the difference between ec2 ami and snapshot

 Let’s my ec2 instance private key lost. Then how I can connect to ec2 instance. It’s a
production server.

 My production server disk space getting full. How I can increase the space without
taking any down time.if my server disk space getting full but during inspection i found that all application
code size are find just web server logs consuming disk space, so without using rm
command how to clear those logs and make disk space free.

 How to handle large amount of traffic for specific period of time during events by using
load balancer?

 How many type of targets we can configure for load balancer

 Let’s say I have 2 ec2 instance behind load balancer, I want to configure like for specific
user request should go to specific server for some period of time.

 How to find load balancer ip.

 What is the default load balancing method?

 I have 100 users in my organization

 I want to give full permission for some users let’s say for 50 user

 for rest of the users limited access

 What will be best way to configure this?

 What is the difference between AWS root user and power user

 What is the difference between iam user and role

 I want my s3 bucket accessible for only specific network. How to configure this.

 What is the default storage class for s3 bucket?

 I want to give my s3 bucket data access for only limited time. how we can configure this
setup

 How to host static website by using s3 bucket and cloudfront, Here make sure entire
bucket should not be public accessible.

 Why should not we use default VPC

 Let’s say we got the requirement to design VPC for infrastructure, How will you design
best VPC architecture, What component will you consider for better security

 When we create VPC, What component will create auto with vpc

 What is vpc peering and its use

 What is the process to create vpc peering

 If you have one EC2 instance in private subnet then, how will you patch and upgrade
using internet. How will you provide internet for that

 What is public and private subnet

 How to define its public or private

 When we create EC2 it will get default public IP. So, How to disable that

 Diff between NACL and SG

 What is VPC endpoint

 Any one of the services quota get exceed then how to resolve it or any action

 I have an on prem data center and want private connectivity between AWS network to
on prem. How to configure it and which servicesIP VPC OR subnet IP range got occupy by all server then what action do we need to
perform.

 Explain the purpose of a VPC's route tables. How are they associated with subnets?

 What is a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection in the context of AWS VPC? How
does it differ from Direct Connect?

 What is VPC Flow Logs, and why would you enable them?

 What is AWS Private Link, and how does it enhance security in a VPC?

 Describe the process of migrating an EC2 instance from one VPC to another.

 What are the different IPv6 addressing options and features available in VPC?
